Short Overview
D.R.A.T.  is a datastore of programs and services that provide technical or financial aid in the event of a disaster. The resources are categorized by the type of aid they provide, their specific region, a specific disaster, and the type of entities the resource provides for.


The Challenge
As we have found in Colorado during wildfire season, and seen recently in disaster areas like Oklahoma, it is difficult to connect people to resources in a time of need. There are many organizations that offer aid to entities like private citizens, businesses, and governments. We were seeking a way to connect the provider to the affected.


Description
Our project is two parts.

The central portion is a database with an API layer. This application contains, tracks, sorts, searches all of the various programs and services available. This is deployed as a demo here: https://drat-demo.herokuapp.com/admin (it contains only a few sample records for testing purposes). And here is a sample call to the API https://drat-demo.herokuapp.com/api/v1/resources.json -- great for developers!

The second part is a sample application that consumes the data provided by the DRAT API. You can see it here: http://jsbin.com/asitiz/2 -- it's incredibly simple, but could be expanded to be very rich with geolocation and a smarter filter.

[Note: these applications shut down when not in use to save resources, so they may take a minute to spin up when first accessed.]


How will it have imapct?
As a centralized, and more importantly *standardized* datastore for programs and services, DRAT can be a canonical source of recovery assistance data.
This will make it invaluable in a time of need (both immediately after the disaster/event, and the years following). Instead of wading through piecemeal sources, non-standard Excel sheets, and Google searches local governments, non-profits, and even citizens can use an application that consumes DRAT's data to find what they need when they need it most.


What's next?
Data. We're starting with the Department of Public Safety here in Colorado to start populating local and national resources.
In parallel we're developing sample applications to demonstrate how other developers can build something that works with DRAT's data.
Beyond that, it would be possible to improve the architecture to handle resource data for other states and expand to a national level.


Who?
Organizations and people affected by a disaster as well as those tasked with aiding in recovery.


Help inidividuals?
Individuals can benefit from the limitless applications of the DRAT dataset. That is, a specific community could easily build and deploy an aid application that tailors the DRAT data to their community (i.e. Colorado Springs can provide a list of up-to-date resources for their area, relating to wildfires, on their website. Citizens could be directed here for help with debris management, financial aid, animal services, etc.)


Value for communities, businesses, governments?
This is where DRAT shines. It aims to standardize the data describing disaster assistance resources, making it universally available and immediate to any community, business, government, developer, and citizen.
